Progress Report - May 2023 (#355)
yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io: site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-may-2023/index.md

+++
date = "2023-06-08T12:00:00-03:00"
title = "Progress Report May 2023"
author = "GoldenX86"
forum = 0
+++

> *What a month!* GoaT releases, yuzu ventures into new platforms, we get a taste of Project Gaia, full Amiibo support, more Project Y.F.C., and a lot more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*What a month!* GOAT releases, yuzu ventures into new platforms, we get a taste of Project Gaia, full Amiibo support, more Project Y.F.C., and a lot more!
```

  >}}

This magical red dot on the bottom right was caused by {{< gh-hovercard "10243" "incorrectly tracking" >}} render target indexes when clearing.
Thanks to some behaviour changes made by Maide, Link is no longer being recorded.

After the game was released, several users reported that the date in the game's save files was consistently being set to 1 January 1970.
After checking the behaviour of the Switch, byte[] implemented {{< gh-hovercard "10244" "a few changes" >}} that solved the issue, with an updated service implementation which allows for computing the time in nanoseconds, automatically adjusting for clock skew, and using the same clock source as the system’s steady clock.

There were also reports of graphical glitches when using the 2X resolution scaling factor: Link and terrain textures would become corrupted after switching weapons.

{{< imgs
	"./2x.png| Scrambled textures. (The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom)"
  >}}

Blinkhawk quickly identified the cause of this problem: wrong clears were being done in the code responsible for synchronisation in the buffer cache.
{{< gh-hovercard "10249" "Some tweaks," >}} and the game can be safely played while scaled.

> For the Linux AMD users, specifically people using older Mesa RADV Vulkan driver releases, byte[] found out that one of the features of `VK_EXT_extended_dynamic_state3`, dynamic depth clamp, was implemented incorrectly in the driver, leading to vertex explosions in some expository and cutscenes moments in the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the Linux AMD users, specifically people using older Mesa RADV Vulkan driver releases, byte[] found out that one of the features of `VK_EXT_extended_dynamic_state3`, dynamic depth clamp, was implemented incorrectly in the driver, leading to vertex explosions in some expository moments in the game.
```

Its current status is that it won’t boot any game on yuzu, but:

{{< single-title-imgs
    "Internal dev build, work-in-progress in getting Mali running."
    "./mali.jpg"
    "./mali2.jpg"
    >}}

We’re working on solving all the quirks needed to get Mali rendering on yuzu as soon as possible.
This is the most popular GPU vendor on the platform after all.
Mali support will happen, we just need some breathing room.

The last case of hardware that should work, but doesn’t, is the AMD RDNA2-based Xclipse 920 from Samsung, used only in the latest Exynos 2200 SoC, and somehow completely skipped from the S23 series phones.
Available information suggests that it may just be an old AMD Windows driver ported to Android, but for some reason the devices refuse to start rendering on yuzu.
This is a GPU we want to get working, as there is no clear reason why it refuses to work, while desktop AMD products work almost perfectly.
Hopefully future iterations of this hardware ship more up to date drivers.

For all other vendors like PowerVR, Vivante, etc: don't even try.
These vendors provide such poor quality drivers that support is out of the question.

> We’re working hard in improving GPU compatibility, adding the required changes needed to boot within the limitations set by the vendors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’re working hard on improving GPU compatibility, adding the required changes needed to boot within the limitations set by the vendors.
```

What used to be just VSync on, off, or triple buffer in the good old OpenGL days is now more complex with Vulkan, even if current games insist on mistakenly calling the setting “VSync on” for legacy reasons.
In fact, nowadays there are 4 VSync options supported by GPU drives:

- Immediate: No VSync. Tearing will happen, but no framerate restrictions will apply.
- FIFO: Double buffering. This is equivalent to yuzu’s old VSync on. Tearing won’t happen, but input will have one frame of latency, and the refresh rate can’t exceed the display’s capabilities.
- Relaxed FIFO: Identical to regular FIFO, but allows for tearing to happen if a desynchronisation happens. Can be considered similar to adaptive VSync. Useful for games with dynamic framerates.
- Mailbox: Triple buffering, avoids tearing while allowing for framerates higher than the refresh rate of the display. Similar to what AMD calls Enhanced sync, and what NVIDIA calls Fast sync.

Mailbox is the obvious recommendation for most games, so of course only NVIDIA on Windows, Mesa on Linux, and Android drivers offer support for it.

{{< imgs

> 	"./VSync.png| Qualcomm has no tolerance for tearing."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	"./VSync.png| Android has no tolerance for tearing."
```
this limitation is imposed by SurfaceFlinger, not the driver

In short, this process was both slower and potentially unsafe due to the risk of clearing the wrong render target.
Not happy with this, Maide worked to sort it out, getting {{< gh-hovercard "10217" "the correct render target" >}} cleared.

Time to introduce another term! `Descriptor Sets` are a feature of the Vulkan API. Their purpose is to allow the CPU to update input bindings, the list of resources used by a shader, without having to wait for the GPU to finish rendering.

Previously, yuzu would share the same descriptor update queue for both host and guest compute pipelines.
This would mistakenly end up binding the pipeline for compute shader data conversion concurrently with the binding for a guest pipeline.
At best, this would break the state of the guest pipeline, and at worst, it would take down the entire GPU driver.
If you experienced random crashes in `Xenoblade Chronicles` games, `Luigi’s Mansion 3`, `Bayonetta 3`, among others, you might now know why.

So, how can this be solved? “Simple!” Let’s just give the host and guest compute pipelines their own {{< gh-hovercard "10222" "queues." >}} 

> Having this information in separate queues keeps data integrity, greatly improving stability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having this information in separate queues fixes the data integrity issues, greatly improving stability.
```

> Newcomer [danilaml](https://github.com/danilaml) identified a {{< gh-hovercard "10254" "missing write bit flag" >}} in the header responsible for decoding h.264 videos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Newcomer [danilaml](https://github.com/danilaml) identified a {{< gh-hovercard "10254" "missing bitflag" >}} in the header responsible for decoding H.264 videos.
```

This fixes video rendering for `Layton's Mysterious Journey: Katrielle and the Millionaires' Conspiracy`.

{{< imgs
	"./layton.png| Games are boring without their cutscenes, right? (Layton's Mysterious Journey: Katrielle and the Millionaires)"
  >}}

> Not stopping there, danilaml also added support for deinterlaced video playback by using the {{< gh-hovercard "10283" "yadif filter" >}} included with [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/), fixing the playback performance of the game’s videos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not stopping there, danilaml also added support for deinterlaced video playback by using the {{< gh-hovercard "10283" "yadif filter" >}} included with [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/), fixing rendering of the game’s videos.
```

{{< imgs
	"./pmd.png| Love the art style! (Pokémon Mystery Dungeon Rescue Team DX)"
  >}}

The change seems to also fix `Advance Wars 1+2: Re-Boot Camp`.

{{< imgs
	"./aw.png| Bond, yuzu Bond. (Advance Wars 1+2: Re-Boot Camp)"
  >}}

Recent changes made to audio emulation improved performance and solved crashes, but also had an interesting regression.
Some sound effects played at a slower speed.

After doing some extensive reverse engineering, Maide reached the conclusion that due to how the DSP works, a {{< gh-hovercard "10221" "5 ms timeout" >}} is needed in the processing wait.
With the timeout implemented, `SUPER MARIO ODYSSEY` and `Kirby Star Allies`, among others can now play back their audio at full speed.

[danilaml](https://github.com/danilaml) continues to deliver the good stuff.
This time, simply {{< gh-hovercard "10362" "updating cubeb" >}} (one of our audio backends, and most of the time the default one) fixed a bug that muted the emulator after resuming the PC from sleep.
Feel free to close your lids and continue later!

> Users playing games with lots of shaders or with slow storage devices, like mechanical drives, will know that the audio can desync and sound crackled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users noticed that after recent changes to fix the wire audio in `SUPER MARIO ODYSSEY`, audio in many games could desync and sound crackled or distorted.
```

- SpecialK’s HDR with [Perceptual Boost enabled](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io/blob/hugo/site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-may-2023/specialkpb.jxr).

Keep in mind Special K needs to be tuned to the capabilities of the display, and my humble 350 nits of top brightness Gigabyte G27Q is a disservice to what this change can make on actually good HDR displays. 
Expect better results if you have an OLED, or a display with dimming zones and a higher peak brightness.

Now, on the disappointing news, the RTX 4060 Ti.

We don’t understand what kind of decisions NVIDIA took when deciding the Ada Lovelace GeForce product stack, but it has been nothing but mistakes.
The RTX 4060 Ti 8GB with only a 128-bit wide memory bus and GDDR6 VRAM is a serious downgrade for emulation when compared to its predecessor, the 256-bit wide equipped RTX 3060 Ti.
You will be getting slower performance in Switch emulation if you get the newer product.
We have no choice but to advise users to stick to Ampere products if possible, or aim higher in the product stack if you have to get a 4000 series card for some reason (DLSS3 or AV1 encoding), which is clearly what NVIDIA is aiming for.

> The argument in favour of Ada is the increased cache size, which RDNA2 confirmed in the past helps with performance substantially, but it also has a silent warning no review mentions: if the cache runs out, you’re left with the performance of a 128-bit wide card, and it’s very easy to saturate the cache when using the resolution scaler–just 2X is enough to tank performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The argument in favour of Ada is the increased cache size, which RDNA2 confirmed in the past helps with performance substantially, but it also has a silent warning no review mentions: if you saturate the cache, you’re left with the performance of a 128-bit wide card, and it’s very easy to saturate the cache when using the resolution scaler–just 2X is enough to tank performance.
```

We strongly recommend Intel Windows users to update to this driver to improve stability with most games.

Sadly, fixing this issue showed us two areas where yuzu is at fault. 
But luckily, both issues have fixes in testing in the, at the time of writing, latest Early Access release. If everything goes according to plan, they should hit Mainline in a few days. Stay tuned.

First problem is in yuzu's code. 
Some compute shaders have barriers in places that result in generating invalid SPIR-V code, and while NVIDIA and AMD have no problem with it, Intel is following the Vulkan specification much more closely and doesn’t like the result, leading to crashes.
While we test the solution, for now we recommend Mainline Intel users to keep the {{< gh-hovercard "10181" "freshly added" >}} “Enable Compute Pipelines (Intel Vulkan only)” disabled in `Emulation > Configure… > Graphics > Advanced`.

{{< imgs
	"./compute.png| This is just temporary (famous last words…)"
  >}}

The other issue is a hardware limitation.
Intel decided to remove support for Float64 operations on their Generation 12 graphics products (UHD 700/Xe/Arc) without providing a driver fallback.

> Well, it turns out that, for some Goddess forsaken reason, `Tears of the Kingdom` requires over the top precision in its cutscenes — precision that current Intel hardware physically lacks, causing crashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Well, it turns out that, for unknown reasons, `Tears of the Kingdom` requires over-the-top precision in its cutscenes — precision that current Intel hardware physically lacks, causing us to crash building the shader.
```

{{< single-title-imgs-compare
    "Let’s not make the gloom feel depressed… (The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom)"
    "./gloombug.png"
    "./gloomfix.png"
    >}}

And for integrated GPU users with 16GB of system RAM or less, such as the Steam Deck, newcomer [scorpion81](https://github.com/scorpion81) has a treat for you.
{{< gh-hovercard "10411" "Setting a hard cap at 4GB" >}} allows `Tears of the Kingdom` to be playable without hitting the page file/swap too hard.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "The difference made on a 2GB equipped GTX 750 (The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom)"
    "./astcbug.mp4"
    "./astcfix.mp4"
    >}}
Vids The difference made on a 2GB equipped GTX 750

That ends the list of changes made to memory management to allow `Tears of the Kingdom` to be playable in at least the components listed in our [hardware requirements](https://yuzu-emu.org/help/quickstart/#hardware-requirements).

These changes would not be necessary if GPUs simply supported ASTC textures.
Wouldn't you like your games to be no bigger than 100GB instead of having software features that degrade image quality, such as frame generation?
Native ASTC decoding support would allow this.

> An Intel Iris Xe iGPU can run the game at 30 FPS in handheld mode while using less memory than any other hardware combination, all thanks to being the last GPU capable of decoding ASTC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Intel Iris Xe iGPU can run the game at 30 FPS in handheld mode while using less memory than any other hardware combination, all thanks to being their last GPU capable of decoding ASTC.
```

So Blinkhawk replaced this system for predictive flushing some years ago, improving performance considerably but introducing with it several graphical regressions, like broken shadows and lightings, wrong thumbnails on saves and photos, and even vertex explosions.

With this release of the yuzu fried chicken, Blinkhawk introduces the new reactive flushing, which has the following fixes:

- Old regressions such as `Bayonetta 2`'s shadows.
- Lighting in `Xenoblade Chronicles` games.
- Improves performance in buffer-heavy games like `Monster Hunter Rise`.
- Thumbnails and in-game photos in a bunch of games like saves in `Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition` and `Xenoblade Chronicles 3`, camera photos in `ASTRAL CHAIN` and partially thumbnails in `Luigi's Mansion 3`.
- Vertex explosions in `Pokemon Violet/Scarlet` and `Yoshi’s Crafted World`.
- Make High GPU Accuracy fully use asynchronous buffers in Vulkan, improving performance.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "From left to right, Bayonetta 2, ASTRAL CHAIN, Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition, and Luigi’s Mansion 3"
    "./rf1.png"
    "./rf2.png"
    "./rf3.png"
    "./rf4.png"
    >}}

{{< single-title-imgs

>     "From left to right, Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, Pokémon Violet, and Yoshi's Crafted World"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "From left to right, Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, Pokémon Scarlet, and Yoshi's Crafted World"
```

    "./rf6.png"
    "./rf7.png"
    "./rf8.png"
    >}}

The option still carries a performance cost, sometimes a considerable one.
It’s enabled by default, but users can disable it from `Emulation > Configure… > Graphics > Advanced > Enable Reactive Flushing`.
If you need the performance, and can tolerate the graphical regressions introduced by disabling it, the option is there.

{{< imgs
	"./reactive.png| If you have performance to spare, keep it enabled."
  >}}

Users with AMD and Intel GPUs complained that high-framerate mods couldn't get past the display's refresh rate when using Vulkan.
This was because the VSync toggle was assuming the best option for each hardware driver based on compatibility.

What used to be just VSync on, off, or triple buffer in the good old OpenGL days is now more complex with Vulkan, even if current games insist on mistakenly calling the setting “VSync on” for legacy reasons.
In fact, nowadays there are 4 VSync options supported by GPU drives:

- Immediate: No VSync. Tearing will happen, but no framerate restrictions will apply.

> - FIFO: Double buffering. This is equivalent to yuzu’s old VSync off. Tearing won’t happen, but input will have one frame of latency, and the refresh rate can’t exceed the display’s capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- FIFO: Double buffering. This is equivalent to yuzu’s old VSync on. Tearing won’t happen, but input will have one frame of latency, and the refresh rate can’t exceed the display’s capabilities.
```

The rest can just enjoy Chad Mailbox.

We recommend setting the driver’s control panel to Enhanced/Fast sync for the best results.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "Press F to sync"
    "./amd.png"
    "./nvidia.png"
    "./intel.png"
    >}}

A great strike from Maide is related to the size of the pipeline cache.
Yuzu used to return the size of the shader code in bytes, which was later used to resize the unsigned 64 bit integer array in charge of storing the cache.
If instead of the size in bytes, a {{< gh-hovercard "10145" "word size function" >}} is used, the array gets 8 times smaller!
This not only saves storage space, but also system memory when shaders are preloaded at boot.

A common complaint from 8GB of RAM users is that games become unstable over time. This isn't necessarily a memory leak — it's likely just the system running out of RAM as new shaders are added to the pipeline cache.
This change greatly benefits them.

> ~~But it’s bloody 2023, you should seriously consider getting 16GB by now, Tears of the Kingdom is not Super Mario Odyssey.~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~But it’s 2023, you should seriously consider getting 16GB by now. Tears of the Kingdom is not Super Mario Odyssey.~~
```

GPUCode improved overall performance when using Vulkan in a few percentage points by {{< gh-hovercard "10474" "removing a wait semaphore." >}}
Every bit helps.

[Epicboy](https://github.com/ameerj) continues his crusade to improve OpenGL.
This time, he {{< gh-hovercard "10483" "fixed" >}} the performance of “Accelerate ASTC texture decoding” when ASTC recompression was set to Uncompressed.

And finally, to close this section, Maide fixed homebrew console apps crashing by {{< gh-hovercard "10506" "skipping a section of the buffer cache" >}} that isn’t needed when an app doesn’t use graphics.

## Project Gaia-lite

byte[] implemented some file system changes on his own, giving us a taste of what’s to come.

Here’s a fun one. Why does it take minutes to boot `Fire Emblem Engage` or `Animal Crossing: New Horizons` with mods?
Because the old implementation increased file read times on a quadratic scale!

{{< gh-hovercard "10183" "Replacing" >}} that terrible algorithm reduces load times in `Fire Emblem Engage` from one and a half minutes to three seconds, and in `Animal Crossing: New Horizons` from four and a half minutes, to ten seconds.

> Another optimisation now in place is {{< gh-hovercard "10463" "fixing the complexity of reads," >}} improving in-game load times as well as boot times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That function wasn't the only source of unnecessarily quadratic behavior. Reads also grew quadratically in time with file count, which has now been {{< gh-hovercard "10463" "optimized," >}} improving in-game load times as well as boot times.
```

> `Project Gaia` will further improve this performance in the future by avoiding wasting time copying and freeing strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another source of slowdown we've identified comes from unnecessary copying and freeing of strings, and we plan to address this in Project Gaia in the future.
```

This way, some sense of “rumble audio”, and an overall better shaky-shaky experience, is achieved.
Thank you!

To help you see if the motion controls are working, german77 has added a {{< gh-hovercard "10167" "cute tiny little cube" >}} to the controller preview.
Feel free to play with it!

{{< imgs
	"./motion.png| Warning, it’s addictive."
  >}}

Stick drift is not the only fear for gamers using controllers, there’s also the rarer *motion drift!*
This could happen naturally, or after some *serious gaming* moments, so an option for {{< gh-hovercard "10203" "recalibration" >}} was needed.
Thankfully german77 took care of it, adding the option if you right click the Motion # mapping in `Emulation > Configure… > Controls`.
If you use it, remember to leave the controller/device on a flat surface for at least 5 seconds so the process can take place.

{{< imgs
	"./gyro.png| Stop shaking!"
  >}}

Now something for the ~~dirty cheaters~~ open-minded players out there.

> Games will block trying to use the same Amiibo more than once, so german77 added a way to {{< gh-hovercard "10207" "randomly generate a new ID" >}} each time the Amiibo is used, the option can be enabled from `Emulation > Configure.. > Controls > Advanced > Use random Amiibo ID`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Games will block trying to use the same Amiibo more than once, so german77 added a way to {{< gh-hovercard "10207" "randomly generate a new ID" >}} each time the Amiibo is used. The option can be enabled from `Emulation > Configure.. > Controls > Advanced > Use random Amiibo ID`.
```

To mitigate this, german77 {{< gh-hovercard "10265" "reduced the scan rate" >}} from once per frame (30 or 60 Hz) to 5 Hz, and reduced the number of attempts to get valid data to 1 down from 7.
This should alleviate the right Joy-Con’s oversaturation of the available Bluetooth bandwidth, reducing stutters considerably.

But what if you want to enjoy some Amiibo scanning on your Pro Controller?
Previously, support was only available for Joy-Cons.
But now, {{< gh-hovercard "10344" "Pro Controllers are also supported!" >}} As long as the controller is connected over Bluetooth and the custom Pro Controller driver is enabled in `Emulation > Configure.. > Controls > Advanced > Enable direct Pro Controller driver [EXPERIMENTAL]`.
That EXPERIMENTAL label is in its last days now.

Not stopping there with the Amiibo changes, german77 also implemented {{< gh-hovercard "10396" "full support for Amiibo writing" >}} when using a Joy-Con or Pro Controller!
This enables the last missing piece for full Amiibo emulation, just as you would use them on the Switch itself.

Feel free to scan to your heart's content! As long as you managed to grab one of the plastic things while they were in stock.

> It’s worth mentioning that Amiibo keys are required to write any data.
> This doesn’t mean dumping the keys is mandatory if all you want to do is just load decrypted Amiibo dumps– german77 {{< gh-hovercard "10415" "removed the requirement" >}} for encryption keys if that’s the case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's worth mentioning that writing Amiibo data will require dumping the relevant keys.
However, if all you want to do is load decrypted Amiibo dumps, german77 {{< gh-hovercard "10415" "added support" >}} for using them without needing to dump the Amiibo keys.
```

> The only thing left to close the Amiibo case is to add a manager, but that’s homework for later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, the only thing left for full Amiibo support is to add a manager!
```

## Audio and miscellaneous changes

The war against properly shutting down yuzu rages on.
This time Maide implements a {{< gh-hovercard "10128" "fix in the DSP engine" >}} so it closes before a required system instance is terminated.
This way a deadlock is avoided during shutdown, improving the situation slightly.
Another battle won, but how many remain?

This next one left us wondering...
[ronikirla](https://github.com/ronikirla) reported that `Pokémon Mystery Dungeon Rescue Team DX` would consistently crash due to a read access violation after two hours of gameplay.

> That’s not a simple bug to track and fix, but yet somehow a mysterious person claiming to work at Google identified the issue, a {{< gh-hovercard "10178" "bad block" >}} in the address space code, passed ronikirla the changed code, and vanished, alleging that due to company guidelines they can’t publicly work on emulators!
> 
> Thank you Mysterious Coder G! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That’s not a simple bug to track down and fix, yet someone in ronikirla's Twitch chat identified the issue as a {{< gh-hovercard "10178" "bad block check" >}} in the address space code and passed along a fix.
```

Feel free to close your lids and continue later!

Users playing games with lots of shaders or with slow storage devices, like mechanical drives, will know that the audio can desync and sound crackled.
bylaws suggested allowing the audio buffer to {{< gh-hovercard "10471" "wait indefinitely" >}} if a queue is too big, so Maide implemented this idea and et voilà, the problem is gone!
(Pardon my French; Spanish is cooler).

## UI improvements

If your yuzu is configured with multiple user profiles, and the `Prompt for user on game boot` option in `Emulation > Configure > General` option is enabled, you will have to click the profile you want to boot and then click OK.
Well, for the newcomer [Qigo42](https://github.com/Qigo42), this was unsatisfactory, so they allowed the {{< gh-hovercard "10189" "profile selection pop-up" >}} to work with just a double click!
Nothing beats quality-of-life changes. Thank you!

[jbeich](https://github.com/jbeich) is back, fixing {{< gh-hovercard "10205" "BSD support" >}} again!

> What a Chad. It’s always good to have more OS alternatives working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s always good to have more OS alternatives working.
```

Continuing the trend in quality-of-life changes, newcomer [grimkor](https://github.com/grimkor) has a nice gift for us.

{{< imgs
	"./context.png| And now, for your convenience…"
  >}}

A {{< gh-hovercard "10352" "context menu" >}} for the filter and antialiasing options! You no longer will have to go through the entire list of options if you want to try a different one, just right click and choose.
Thank you!

> And finally, an oversight leading to weird issues, one of those cases where we ask ourselves “what the hell is the user doing to trigger this?!”
> {{< gh-hovercard "10482" "context menu" >}}
> In german77’s words, “Qt solution to Qt problem.”
> The game list was still active in the background while a game was running, so under special circumstances, you could try to boot a second game, causing a colourful set of issues, leading to deafening sirens sounding off, havoc, mayhem, and too many mosquitoes in a closed space.
> Needless to say, disabling the game list when a game is selected solved the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you double clicked a game in the game list, you could end up double clicking it again or pressing enter before the game list got unloaded, which would cause yuzu to try to load the game twice, and usually just crash. 
german77 fixed this up by {{< gh-hovercard "10482" "immediately disabling the game list" >}} after a game has been launched.
```

## Hardware section

This section got expanded! In future articles we will include any news for Android GPU vendors.

### NVIDIA

We have some good news and a little disappointment for the Green Team.
But first, we have some progress in the Maxwell and Pascal situation.

In the past, we used to recommend users to stick to older driver releases for the GTX 750/900/1000 series, as anything newer than the 470 driver series was unstable.
Thanks to the work done with the garbage collector for `Tears of the Kingdom`, we now know that the problem with these cards is how the driver handles out-of-memory situations.
We were even able to observe it on Turing cards with 4GB, so it wasn't unique to older cards, we just didn't have a game that utilised VRAM as much as Zelda.

We reported our findings to NVIDIA with a test case, so it’s in their hands now.

As the VRAM fills up, an AMD card will get slower and slower until it stops working and crashes yuzu, while an NVIDIA GPU would corrupt the entire desktop, taking all the displays with it.

> Using the ASTC re-compression option goes a long way to avoiding this problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the ASTC recompression option goes a long way to avoiding this problem.
```

Sadly, fixing this issue showed us some areas where yuzu is at fault.

Some compute shaders have barriers in places that result in generating invalid SPIR-V code, and while NVIDIA and AMD have no problem with it, Intel is following the Vulkan specification much more closely and doesn’t like the result, leading to crashes.
While we work on a solution, for now we recommend Intel users to keep the {{< gh-hovercard "10181" "freshly added" >}} “Enable Compute Pipelines (Intel Vulkan only)” disabled in `Emulation > Configure… > Graphics > Advanced` until we fix the affected shaders.

{{< imgs
	"./compute.png| This is just temporary (famous last words…)"
  >}}

Another fresh issue is a hardware limitation.
Intel decided to remove support for Float64 operations on their Generation 12 graphics products (UHD 700/Xe/Arc) without providing a driver fallback.
Well, it turns out that, for some reason, `Tears of the Kingdom` requires over the top precision in its cutscenes — precision that current Intel hardware physically lacks, causing crashes.
We’re working on a Float64 to Float32 shader conversion to solve the problem.

> But for now, Intel users will have to get a save past the intro cutscene, either finding one online, or by using OpenGL, as the OpenGL spec dictates that Float64 must be supported one way or another, even if it is via software emulation.

Reviewer 2: byte suggests deleting this entirely.

Once these issues are solved, Intel should be in very good shape. Stay tuned.

## Future projects

> I don’t have much to announce for now regarding ongoing projects as the team was very busy with `Tears of the Kingdom` and the Android release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We don’t have much to announce for now regarding ongoing projects—we were very busy with `Tears of the Kingdom` and the Android release!
```

> GPUCode is working on a couple of cool things, one of them is implementing a way to have an equivalent to {{< gh-hovercard "10545" "DXGI presentation" >}} working on Intel and AMD hardware, that way AutoHDR can be used with any GPU vendor, not just NVIDIA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GPUCode is working on a couple of cool things. One of them is implementing a way to have an equivalent to {{< gh-hovercard "10545" "DXGI presentation" >}} working on Intel and AMD hardware; that way, AutoHDR can be used with any GPU vendor, not just NVIDIA.
```

That’s all folks! For real this time. If you reached this point, sorry for the delay, thank you for your patience and for sticking until the end. See you next month!

> ~~I need some sleep…~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~We all need some sleep…~~
```

Expect “good” compatibility, similar to the desktop version thanks to this, but also low performance and high temperatures.
Native code execution, or NCE (do I smell `Project Nice`?) is on our list of goals for the Android builds.

The CPU itself, while very crucial for performance and the main bottleneck for now, is less important than the GPU, for the reasons previously mentioned (the drivers).
The same rules as on PC apply here: 6 cores or more is preferred, and the highest possible IPC is strongly recommended. A Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 can be twice as fast as a Snapdragon 865.

RAM use is both a blessing and a curse.
A blessing because Android devices natively support ASTC textures — the format is designed for such devices.
This allows the GPU to use very little RAM, just like on the Switch.

The curse is that, because Android is such a heavy OS, there is no guarantee that complex games will run on devices with 6GB of RAM. 8GB is the strong recommendation, which puts compatibility on the pricey side of the spectrum. 
A certain Zelda game we wrote a lot about currently requires at least 12GB of RAM to run.

> There are ongoing efforts to reduce memory requirements, such as native code execution and [UMA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_memory) optimizations for the GPU code, but the reality is that emulation adds overhead and Android will only get fatter over time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are ongoing efforts to reduce memory requirements, such as native code execution and [UMA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Memory_Architecture) optimizations for the GPU code, but the reality is that emulation adds overhead and Android will only get fatter over time.
```

    "./amd.png"
    "./nvidia.png"
    "./intel.png"
    >}}

Maide found an issue related to the size of the pipeline cache.
yuzu used to return the size of the shader code in bytes, which was later used to resize the unsigned 64 bit integer array in charge of storing the cache, making the array 8 times larger than it was supposed to be.
This is fixed by {{< gh-hovercard "10145" "using the length of the array" >}} instead of the size in bytes.

A common complaint from users with 8GB of RAM is that games become unstable over time. This isn't necessarily a memory leak — it's likely just the system running out of RAM as new shaders are added to the pipeline cache.
This change greatly benefits them.
~~But it’s 2023, you should seriously consider getting 16GB by now. Tears of the Kingdom is not Super Mario Odyssey.~~

ASTC continues to be in the news here — this time a problem with {{< gh-hovercard "10206" "3D ASTC" >}} textures, because it isn’t enough to deal with flat 2D ones.
A bug in their implementation caused the level Frantic Fields in `Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze` to render incorrectly.
Some tweaks by the ‘hawk, and the Kong army is back in action.

{{< imgs

> 	"./dk.png| No more quicksands! (Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze)"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	"./dk.png| No more quicksand! (Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze)"
```

  >}}

yuzu's buffer cache is responsible for storing most forms of arbitrary data for the GPU to process.
Buffers can be modified by either the GPU or the CPU, so yuzu would track the buffer to one type of modification, then wait for the other type of modification to synchronize the data. But in reality, {{< gh-hovercard "10216" "performing the synchronization" >}} before tracking the modification would make much more sense.
Maide noticed this discrepancy and set out to correct it, streamlining the code.

Since the old code would track buffers globally, some draws would end up ignoring channel swaps, leading to leftover values from the wrong channel getting bound in uniform buffers.
If instead we {{< gh-hovercard "10469" "move buffer bindings" >}} to be channel specific, the issue is solved.
This fix should affect more games using multiple 3D channels too.

Continuing with code optimisations, Maide found some incorrect behaviour in how render targets are selected.

> The `Render Target` (The OG RT before Ray Tracing came to town) is a texture containing the image to be rendered during a draw or clear operation.

Author: I wonder if we can spin it into "before RTX came to town"

That function wasn't the only source of unnecessarily quadratic behavior. Reads also grew quadratically in time with file count, which has now been {{< gh-hovercard "10463" "optimized," >}} improving in-game load times as well as boot times.

Another source of slowdown we've identified comes from unnecessary copying and freeing of strings, and we plan to address this in Project Gaia in the future.

Finally, a savedata reader for `cache storage` needed to be {{< gh-hovercard "10237" "stubbed" >}} to get `Tears of the Kingdom` to boot.

## Input and Amiibo improvements

HD Rumble is one of the marketed features of the Switch, which is a cool way of saying the official Switch controllers have `Linear Resonant Actuators` in charge of rumble, instead of the good old rumble motors we were used to in the past.

Well, Sony’s DualSense controller also has linear resonant actuators, so in theory, it should be able to emulate HD Rumble.
The problem is that SDL, the API we use to support non-Nintendo controllers on yuzu, currently doesn’t expose a way to take advantage of these fancy actuators.

> Well, newcomer [marius851000](https://github.com/marius851000) intends to improve this situation for DualSense owners, so they came up with the idea to {{< gh-hovercard "10119" "change the rumble amplitude" >}} based on the frequency requested by the game, with 140-400 Hz operating as the low frequency, and 200-700 Hz as the high frequency.
> This way, some sense of “rumble audio”, and an overall better shaky-shaky experience, is achieved.
> Thank you!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Well, newcomer [marius851000](https://github.com/marius851000) improved this situation for DualSense owners, so they came up with the idea to {{< gh-hovercard "10119" "change the rumble amplitude" >}} based on the frequency requested by the game, with 140-400 Hz operating as the low frequency, and 200-700 Hz as the high frequency.
This way, some sense of “rumble audio”, and an overall better shaky-shaky experience, is achieved.
Thank you!
```

[ronikirla](https://github.com/ronikirla) reported that `Pokémon Mystery Dungeon Rescue Team DX` would consistently crash due to a read access violation after two hours of gameplay.

That’s not a simple bug to track down and fix, yet someone in ronikirla's Twitch chat identified the issue as a {{< gh-hovercard "10178" "bad block check" >}} in the address space code and passed along a fix.

{{< imgs
	"./pmd.png| Love the art style! (Pokémon Mystery Dungeon Rescue Team DX)"
  >}}

The change seems to also fix `Advance Wars 1+2: Re-Boot Camp`.

{{< imgs
	"./aw.png| Bond, yuzu Bond. (Advance Wars 1+2: Re-Boot Camp)"
  >}}

Recent changes made to audio emulation improved performance and solved crashes, but also had an interesting regression.
Some sound effects played at a slower speed.

After doing some extensive reverse engineering, Maide reached the conclusion that due to how the DSP works, a {{< gh-hovercard "10221" "5 ms timeout" >}} is needed in the processing wait.
With the timeout implemented, `SUPER MARIO ODYSSEY` and `Kirby Star Allies`, among others can now play back their audio at full speed.

[danilaml](https://github.com/danilaml) continues to deliver the good stuff.

> This time, simply {{< gh-hovercard "10362" "updating cubeb" >}} (one of our audio backends, and most of the time the default one) fixed a bug that muted the emulator after resuming the PC from sleep.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This time, simply {{< gh-hovercard "10362" "updating cubeb" >}} (one of our audio backends, and most of the time the default one) fixed a bug that muted the emulator after waking the PC from sleep.
```

bylaws suggested allowing the audio buffer to {{< gh-hovercard "10471" "wait indefinitely" >}} if a queue is too big, so Maide implemented this idea and et voilà, the problem is gone!
(Pardon my French; Spanish is cooler).

## UI improvements

If your yuzu is configured with multiple user profiles, and the `Prompt for user on game boot` option in `Emulation > Configure > General` option is enabled, you will have to click the profile you want to boot and then click OK.
Well, for the newcomer [Qigo42](https://github.com/Qigo42), this was unsatisfactory, so they allowed the {{< gh-hovercard "10189" "profile selection pop-up" >}} to work with just a double click!
Nothing beats quality-of-life changes. Thank you!

[jbeich](https://github.com/jbeich) is back, fixing {{< gh-hovercard "10205" "BSD support" >}} again!
It’s always good to have more OS alternatives working.

Continuing the trend in quality-of-life changes, newcomer [grimkor](https://github.com/grimkor) has a nice gift for us.

{{< imgs
	"./context.png| And now, for your convenience…"
  >}}

> A {{< gh-hovercard "10352" "context menu" >}} for the filter and antialiasing options! You no longer will have to go through the entire list of options if you want to try a different one, just right click and choose.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A {{< gh-hovercard "10352" "context menu" >}} for the filter and antialiasing options! You no longer have to go through the entire list of options if you want to try a different one, simply right click and choose.
```

Thank you!

If you double clicked a game in the game list, you could end up double clicking it again or pressing enter before the game list got unloaded, which would cause yuzu to try to load the game twice, and usually just crash. 
german77 fixed this up by {{< gh-hovercard "10482" "immediately disabling the game list" >}} after a game has been launched.

## Hardware section

> This section got expanded! In future articles we will include any news for Android GPU vendors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We no longer only support the PC! In future articles, we will include any news for Android GPU vendors.
```

### NVIDIA

We have some good news and a little disappointment for the Green Team.

> But first, we have some progress in the Maxwell and Pascal situation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
But first, we have some progress with the Maxwell and Pascal situation.
```

Just change `Vulkan/OpenGL presentation method` in the NVIDIA Control Panel to `Prefer layered on DXGI Swapchain`.
The same setting used to get AutoHDR working helps contain the out-of-VRAM crashes.
Using this in combination with BC1 ASTC recompression will make old 2GB cards run without crashes.

{{< imgs
	"./nvcp.png| This interface is so old…"
  >}}

Switching to the the good side of news, [HolographicWings](https://github.com/HolographicWings/) made an amazing tutorial on how to use `DLDSR` in yuzu [here](https://github.com/HolographicWings/TOTK-Mods-collection/blob/main/Guide/Guide.pdf).
DLDSR is a way to use the Tensor cores available in RTX cards to upscale the image. You can consider it a mix of DLSS and FSR 1.0, as it works for any game, but uses deep learning instead of traditional filters.
Needless to say, it’s a great way to improve image quality if you have the hardware to test it.

And in other good news, [Special K](https://special-k.info/) now supports HDR in Vulkan and it works with yuzu!

> NVIDIA is still the only supported vendor, as this is only possible thanks to the magic `Prefer layered on DXGI Swapchain` option, but the quality and customisation offered by Special K over AutoHDR is outstanding. That expensive OLED never looked so tempting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NVIDIA is still the only supported vendor, as this is only possible thanks to the magic `Prefer layered on DXGI Swapchain` option, but the quality and customization offered by Special K over AutoHDR is outstanding. That expensive OLED never looked so tempting.
```

Note that we have confirmed in testing that `Prefer layered on DXGI Swapchain` needs to be manually enabled for Special K to work properly.
This also includes other NVIDIA-exclusive goodies such as input lag reduction thanks to NVIDIA Reflex.
Feel free to experiment with the app, it's amazing.

Here are some comparison pics in .jxr format, they can be opened with the default Photo app included with Windows 11, and an SDR control capture in .png format: 

- First the scene in [SDR](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io/blob/hugo/site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-may-2023/sdr.png), the default experience.
- Windows 11’s [AutoHDR](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io/blob/hugo/site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-may-2023/autohdr.jxr) with the Cemu renaming trick.
- SpecialK’s HDR with [Perceptual Boost disabled](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io/blob/hugo/site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-may-2023/specialk.jxr).
- SpecialK’s HDR with [Perceptual Boost enabled](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io/blob/hugo/site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-may-2023/specialkpb.jxr).

> Keep in mind Special K needs to be tuned to the capabilities of the display, and my humble 350 nits of top brightness Gigabyte G27Q is a disservice to what this change can make on actually good HDR displays. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Keep in mind, Special K needs to be tuned to the capabilities of the display, and my humble 350 nit Gigabyte G27Q is a disservice to what this change can do on actually good HDR displays. 
```

Expect better results if you have an OLED, or a display with dimming zones and a higher peak brightness.

> Now, on the disappointing news, the RTX 4060 Ti.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, on to the disappointing news: the RTX 4060 Ti.
```

We don’t understand what kind of decisions NVIDIA took when deciding the Ada Lovelace GeForce product stack, but it has been nothing but mistakes.
The RTX 4060 Ti 8GB with only a 128-bit wide memory bus and GDDR6 VRAM is a serious downgrade for emulation when compared to its predecessor, the 256-bit wide equipped RTX 3060 Ti.
You will be getting slower performance in Switch emulation if you get the newer product.
We have no choice but to advise users to stick to Ampere products if possible, or aim higher in the product stack if you have to get a 4000 series card for some reason (DLSS3 or AV1 encoding), which is clearly what NVIDIA is aiming for.

> The argument in favour of Ada is the increased cache size, which RDNA2 confirmed in the past helps with performance substantially, but it also has a silent warning no review mentions: if you saturate the cache, you’re left with the performance of a 128-bit wide card, and it’s very easy to saturate the cache when using the resolution scaler–just 2X is enough to tank performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The argument in favour of Ada is the increased cache size, which RDNA2 confirmed in the past helps with performance substantially, but it also has a silent warning no review mentions: if you saturate the cache, you’re left with the performance of a 128-bit wide card, and it’s very easy to saturate the cache when using the resolution scaler — just 2X is enough to tank performance.
```

Spending 400 USD on a card that has terrible performance outside of 1X scaling is, in our opinion, a terrible investment, and should be avoided entirely.
We hope the 16GB version at least comes equipped with GDDR6X VRAM, which would increase the available bandwidth and provide an actual improvement in performance for this kind of workload.

### AMD

> AMD has shown steady progress with each new driver release, and thanks to this the experience on yuzu is in very good shape for Radeon owners, besides some documented hardware limitations causing graphical issues we mentioned [in the past](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-progress-report-apr-2023/#amd-delivering-on-their-promises).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
AMD has shown steady progress with each new driver release and, thanks to this, the experience on yuzu is in very good shape for Radeon owners, besides some documented hardware limitations causing graphical issues we've mentioned [in the past](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-progress-report-apr-2023/#amd-delivering-on-their-promises).
```

> The only main exception is a rendering issue affecting `Tears of the Kingdom`, which only happens with RDNA3 hardware, the RX 7000 series.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The main exception is a rendering issue affecting `Tears of the Kingdom`, which only happens with RDNA3 hardware, the RX 7000 series.
```

{{< single-title-imgs

>     "Both RX 7900 and RX 7600 series are affected. (The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom)"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    "Both the RX 7900 and RX 7600 series are affected. (The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom)"
```

    "./rdna1.png"
    "./rdna2.png"

>     "./rdna3.png"

Reviewer 3: These images look terrible next to each other. Can you crop them to the same dimensions?

Affected users will have to wait to see if future driver updates solve this.

### Intel

After the… peculiar [discussion](https://github.com/IGCIT/Intel-GPU-Community-Issue-Tracker-IGCIT/issues/159) we had with Intel regarding their drivers and how they handle bug reports, we are happy to announce the [latest public beta driver](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/download/729157/intel-arc-iris-xe-graphics-beta-windows.html) solves the SPIR-V issues we reported seven months ago!
We strongly recommend Intel Windows users to update to this driver to improve stability with most games.

Sadly, fixing this issue showed us two areas where yuzu is at fault.
But luckily both issues have fixes in testing in the latest Early Access release (at the time of writing). If everything goes according to plan, they should hit Mainline in a few days. Stay tuned.

The first problem is in yuzu's code. 
Some compute shaders have barriers in places that result in generating invalid SPIR-V code, and while NVIDIA and AMD have no problem with it, Intel is following the Vulkan specification much more closely and doesn’t like the result, leading to crashes.

> While we test the solution, for now we recommend Mainline Intel users to keep the {{< gh-hovercard "10181" "freshly added" >}} “Enable Compute Pipelines (Intel Vulkan only)” disabled in `Emulation > Configure… > Graphics > Advanced`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While we test the solution, for now we recommend Mainline Intel users to keep the {{< gh-hovercard "10181" "freshly added" >}} `Enable Compute Pipelines (Intel Vulkan only)` disabled in `Emulation > Configure… > Graphics > Advanced`.
```

{{< imgs
	"./compute.png| This is just temporary (famous last words…)"
  >}}

The other issue is a hardware limitation.
Intel decided to remove support for Float64 operations on their Generation 12 graphics products (UHD 700/Xe/Arc) without providing a driver fallback.

> Well, it turns out that, for unknown reasons, `Tears of the Kingdom` requires over the top precision in its cutscenes — precision that current Intel hardware physically lacks, causing us to crash building the shader.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Well, it turns out that, for unknown reasons, `Tears of the Kingdom` requires over the top precision in its cutscenes — precision that current Intel hardware physically lacks, causing us to crash when building the shader.
```

We’re testing a Float64 to Float32 shader conversion to solve the problem.

> For now, Mainline Intel users will have to get a save past the intro cutscene, or use OpenGL, as the OpenGL spec dictates that Float64 must be supported one way or another, even if it is via software emulation.
> 
> Currently, the game is playable at a mostly-consistent 30 FPS with an i5 1240P running an Iris Xe iGPU (if you stick to handheld rendering), and shows better performance than AMD's Vega iGPUs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For now, Mainline Intel users will want to use a save that's past the intro cutscene, or use OpenGL, as the OpenGL spec dictates that Float64 must be supported one way or another, even if it is via software emulation.

Currently, the game is playable at a mostly-consistent 30 FPS with an i5 1240P running an Iris Xe iGPU (if you stick to handheld rendering), and exhibits better performance than AMD's Vega iGPUs. 
```

For those interested in the experience with desktop products, here is footage captured with an Arc A770 16GB:

{{< imgs
	"./totk.mp4| Arc is viable! (The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom)"
  >}}

## Future projects

> We don’t have much to announce for now regarding ongoing projects—we were very busy with `Tears of the Kingdom` and the Android release!
> 
> GPUCode is working on a couple of cool things. One of them is implementing a way to have an equivalent to {{< gh-hovercard "10545" "DXGI presentation" >}} working on Intel and AMD hardware; that way, AutoHDR can be used with any GPU vendor, not just NVIDIA.
> 
> That’s all folks! For real this time. If you reached this point, sorry for the delay, thank you for your patience and for sticking until the end. See you next month!
> ~~We all need some sleep…~~

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We don’t have much to announce for now regarding ongoing projects — we were very busy with `Tears of the Kingdom` and the Android release!

GPUCode is working on a couple of cool things. One of them is implementing a way to have an equivalent to {{< gh-hovercard "10545" "DXGI presentation" >}} working on Intel and AMD hardware; that way, AutoHDR can be used with any GPU vendor, not just NVIDIA.

That’s all folks! For real this time. If you've reached this point, thank you for your patience and for reading to the end. We hope you've enjoyed this mega-report! See you next month!
~~We all need some sleep…~~
```

This change greatly benefits them.
~~But it’s 2023, you should seriously consider getting 16GB by now. Tears of the Kingdom is not Super Mario Odyssey.~~

ASTC continues to be in the news here — this time a problem with {{< gh-hovercard "10206" "3D ASTC" >}} textures, because it isn’t enough to deal with flat 2D ones.
A bug in their implementation caused the level Frantic Fields in `Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze` to render incorrectly.
Some tweaks by the ‘hawk, and the Kong army is back in action.

{{< imgs
	"./dk.png| Quicksands no more! (Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze)"
  >}}

The buffer cache, responsible for storing information for the GPU to process at the right time.
The buffer can be modified by either the GPU or the CPU, so yuzu would set the buffer to either one, then wait for the other type, when in reality, {{< gh-hovercard "10216" "checking for one state" >}} before setting to the other would make much more sense.
Maide noticed this discrepancy and set out to correct it, streamlining the code.

Another mishap in the buffer cache affected rendering in `Dokapon Kingdom Connect`.

> {{< single-title-imgs
>     "There’s still some room for improvement! (Dokapon Kingdom Connect)"
>     "./dkgbug.mp4"
>     "./dkgfix.mp4"
>     >}}
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
These videos are for Super Fowlst 2 (PR 10132), not Dokapon Kingdom Connect.

> Since the old code would track buffers globally, some draws would end up ignoring channel swaps, leading to bad values in the uniform buffer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the old code would track buffers globally, some draws would end up ignoring channel swaps, leading to leftover values from the wrong channel getting bound in uniform buffers.
```

But what if you want to enjoy some Amiibo scanning on your Pro Controller?
Previously, support was only available for Joy-Cons.
But now, {{< gh-hovercard "10344" "Pro Controllers are also supported!" >}} As long as the controller is connected over Bluetooth and the custom Pro Controller driver is enabled in `Emulation > Configure.. > Controls > Advanced > Enable direct Pro Controller driver [EXPERIMENTAL]`.
That EXPERIMENTAL label is in its last days now.

Not stopping there with the Amiibo changes, german77 also implemented {{< gh-hovercard "10396" "full support for Amiibo writing" >}} when using a Joy-Con or Pro Controller!
This enables the last missing piece for full Amiibo emulation, just as you would use them on the Switch itself.

Feel free to scan to your heart's content! As long as you managed to grab one of the plastic things while they were in stock.

It's worth mentioning that writing Amiibo data will require dumping the relevant keys.
However, if all you want to do is load decrypted Amiibo dumps, german77 {{< gh-hovercard "10415" "added support" >}} for using them without needing to dump the Amiibo keys.

> At this point, the only thing left for full Amiibo support is to add a manager!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, the only thing left to complete Amiibo support is to add a manager!
```

While we test the solution, for now we recommend Mainline Intel users to keep the {{< gh-hovercard "10181" "freshly added" >}} “Enable Compute Pipelines (Intel Vulkan only)” disabled in `Emulation > Configure… > Graphics > Advanced`.

{{< imgs
	"./compute.png| This is just temporary (famous last words…)"
  >}}

The other issue is a hardware limitation.
Intel decided to remove support for Float64 operations on their Generation 12 graphics products (UHD 700/Xe/Arc) without providing a driver fallback.
Well, it turns out that, for unknown reasons, `Tears of the Kingdom` requires over the top precision in its cutscenes — precision that current Intel hardware physically lacks, causing us to crash building the shader.
We’re testing a Float64 to Float32 shader conversion to solve the problem.
For now, Mainline Intel users will have to get a save past the intro cutscene, or use OpenGL, as the OpenGL spec dictates that Float64 must be supported one way or another, even if it is via software emulation.

> The results speak for themselves, the game is playable at mostly consistent 30 FPS with an i5 1240P running an Iris Xe iGPU if you stick to handheld rendering, showing better performance than AMD's Vega iGPUs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the game is playable at a mostly-consistent 30 FPS with an i5 1240P running an Iris Xe iGPU (if you stick to handheld rendering), and shows better performance than AMD's Vega iGPUs. 
```

Who wants more `Project Y.F.C.` goodies?
Blinkhawk serves us {{< gh-hovercard "10155" "Reactive Flushing" >}}, with fries.

> In the early days of yuzu, if the CPU reads an area modified by the GPU, full sync flushing between the host and guest GPU (emulated and system’s GPU) would trigger, let’s call it, “old reactive flushing”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the early days of yuzu, if the CPU were to read an area modified by the GPU, full sync flushing between the host and guest GPU (emulated and system’s GPU) would trigger (let’s call it “old reactive flushing”).
```

After the… peculiar [discussion](https://github.com/IGCIT/Intel-GPU-Community-Issue-Tracker-IGCIT/issues/159) we had with Intel regarding their drivers and how they handle bug reports, we are happy to announce the [latest public beta driver](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/download/729157/intel-arc-iris-xe-graphics-beta-windows.html) solves the SPIR-V issues we reported seven months ago!
We strongly recommend Intel Windows users to update to this driver to improve stability with most games.

Sadly, fixing this issue showed us two areas where yuzu is at fault. 

> But luckily both issues have fixes in testing in the, at the time of writing, latest Early Access release. If everythin goes according to plan, they should hit Mainline in a few days. Stay tuned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But luckily both issues have fixes in testing in the latest Early Access release (at the time of writing). If everything goes according to plan, they should hit Mainline in a few days. Stay tuned.
```

> First problem is in yuzu's code. Some compute shaders have barriers in places that result in generating invalid SPIR-V code, and while NVIDIA and AMD have no problem with it, Intel is following the Vulkan specification much more closely and doesn’t like the result, leading to crashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first problem is in yuzu's code. Some compute shaders have barriers in places that result in generating invalid SPIR-V code, and while NVIDIA and AMD have no problem with it, Intel is following the Vulkan specification much more closely and doesn’t like the result, leading to crashes.
```

For now, Mainline Intel users will have to get a save past the intro cutscene, or use OpenGL, as the OpenGL spec dictates that Float64 must be supported one way or another, even if it is via software emulation.

The results speak for themselves, the game is playable at mostly consistent 30 FPS with an i5 1240P running an Iris Xe iGPU if you stick to handheld rendering, showing better performance than AMD's Vega iGPUs. 

> For those interested in what's the experience with desktop products, here is footage captured with an Arc A770 16GB:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For those interested in the experience with desktop products, here is footage captured with an Arc A770 16GB:
```
